1. Business Understanding
1.1 Introduction
The film industry has grown over time and has recently become a key hub of innovation and investment. According to grandviewresearch the world market value of entertainment and movies is estimated at USD 90.92 billion as at 2021 and further expected to grow at a rate of 7.2% annually up to 2030. Several factors can be attributed to the rising trend of the growth of this sector. Some of them include; an increase in the propensity to buy leisure, general increase in population and disposable incomes. The target market for movie productions is teenagers and middle-aged adults aged 18 to 39 years. Regarding demographics, North America has dominated the market as per the 2021 report by grandviewresearch. Moreover, it is suitable for Microsoft to note other significant players in film production in the world, such as CBS Corporation and CBS Broadcasting Inc, Disney, Sony Corporation, 21st Century Fox, and Viacom Inc. to mention but a few. According to Box OfficeMojo some of the best-performing movies worldwide are The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Guardians of the Galaxy vol. 3, Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantomania, John Wick: Chapter 4 and Fast X. The intended beneficiary of this work is the Microsoft Company Movie Studio which wants to start engaging in Movie Production Business. Still, the Management needs to gain the requisite knowledge in the field. My client (Microsoft Movie Studio) will benefit from the insights brought out by the data analysis I will perform, as well as the recommendations resulting from the results and findings of the study.

1.2 Problem Statement
The movie production business is generally very competitive, capital-intensive, and quite dynamic since its dependent on the preferences of those being entertained. Consequently, Microsoft Movie Studio is faced with the challenge of knowing the budget estimates for venturing into the business, the best-selling movie genres, the venture's return on investment, and other strategies to ensure its investment is successful. This research aims to study the trends in the box office and give valuable insights that will help the Management of the new Microsoft Movie studio. Through statistical analysis, I identify the film genres that are doing well in the market, and best-selling movie themes, highlight audience demographics, analyze market demand, and identify key competitors in the sector.

2. Data Understanding
The dataset used in this project has been extracted from various movie webistes. The specific sites are; The Numbers, The Movie DB, Rotten Tomatoes IMDB and Box Office Mojo.I have further created the following paths to the essential dataframes for easy analysis. The file paths are: 'Project data/tn.movie_budgets.csv', 'Project data/tmdb.movies.csv', 'Project data/title.basics.csv' and 'Project data/title.ratings.csv'. The first dataset contains budgets of various movie series and their gross returns both locally and worldwide.It has 5782 rows and 5 columns. The other datasets contains movie genres, movie Ids, number of votes, ratings, runtime in minutes and and they can be merged to yield a crucial statistical outcomes as explained in the analysis part.
3. Data Analysis
 Analysing Return on Investment of movies
After reading the data and viewing the first five rows and all columns I discover that it is demonstarting different types of movies, their production budget, domestic and worldwide gross profit in US Dollars. I will therefore proceed and analyse which movies have the highest return on investment.

Calculating the Return on Investment(ROI) We first deop the $ sign and then write code for getting the return on investment (ROI) for both domestic and worldwide markets.
4. Conclusion and Recommendations
4.1 Conclusion

The best selling and highly watched movies are Action Movies/Superhero, Documentary,Comedy and Drama movies. These are the most popular movies with based on the analysis done. Moreover, the movie market is seen to be huge and the return on the investment exciting. Microsoft movie studio should focus on movies which are able to be sold worldwide by selecting interesting themes and translating the movies in different languages to ensure they can be watched by everyone. Microsoft Movie studio should consider producing movies which are about one and half hours since its the average length of other movies in the market. Further studies indicate that the largest population which watches the movies are the young people and you adults aged 18 to 38 years and thus the content produced should be relevant to them.

4.2 Recommendations

Microssoft Movie Studio should deal in diverse movie genres. The top genres identified from this study include; Drama, Action Movies/Superhero, Documentary,Comedy movies. These are the genres with great potential and thus the company should focus in them.
I recommend Microsoft Movie studio to produce movies touching on global themes since the study has indicated that the highest retun on investment is on worldwide market and not only at the domestic market. Microsoft movie studio should ensure that all movies produced are well interpreted and marketed through other Microsoft Inc. platforms.
Microsoft Movie studio should do audience segmentation. From the ratings histogram we have discovered that different reviews were given to different customer preferences. To improve on the overall ratings of their movies, the company should ensure that movies for various age groups, social classes, cultures among other considerations are produced based on demand. Microsoft movie studion can collaborate with some experts in various types of movies to ensure they make quality films to the audience.
